.TH LEXC 1 "2026-03-05" "Lex Compiler v0.4.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lexc \- declarative multi-target transpiler for game content
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lexc
.I INPUT
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Lex is a declarative, multi-target transpiler that compiles .lex files into game-ready code for multiple engines and frameworks. Write your game content once in a clean, readable format and generate output for Lua, JSON, Godot (GDScript), Unity (C#), LÖVE2D, and Defold.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output \ \fIDIR\fR
Output directory for generated files. Default: same directory as input file.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-target \ \fIFORMAT\fR
Output format(s). Multiple formats can be specified comma-separated:
.RS
.TP
.B lua
Generic Lua tables (any Lua-based game)
.TP
.B json
Universal JSON format (data interchange)
.TP
.B gd
GDScript Resource class (Godot 4.x)
.TP
.B cs
C# ScriptableObject class (Unity)
.TP
.B love2d
LÖVE2D module format
.TP
.B defold
Defold module format
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-context \ \fIFORMAT\fR
Generate AI context for LLM integration:
.RS
.TP
.B json
Structured JSON context
.TP
.B md
Markdown documentation
.TP
.B minimal
Compact format for prompts
.TP
.B all
Generate all context formats
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-query \ \fIQUESTION\fR
Query game data in natural language. Examples:
.RS
.IP
"What does Farm require?"
.br
"What unlocks SteamFactory?"
.br
"What costs the most?"
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-types \ \fILIST\fR
Custom definition types (comma-separated). Default: Imperium schema (era, structure, unit, technology, resource, choice, event, ending, secret).
.TP
.B \-\-mode \ \fIMODE\fR
Visibility mode:
.RS
.TP
.B modder
Show only public definitions (default)
.TP
.B developer
Show all definitions including internal/private
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-watch
Watch for file changes and automatically recompile.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-validate
Skip semantic validation.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Show detailed output during compilation.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Show version information.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Basic compilation to Lua:
.B lexc game.lex \-t lua
.TP
Multi-target output to specific directory:
.B lexc game.lex \-o output/ \-t lua,json,gd
.TP
Custom schema for an RPG game:
.B lexc characters.lex \-\-types character,item,quest \-t json
.TP
Generate AI context for LLM integration:
.B lexc game.lex \-\-context md \-o docs/
.TP
Query game data:
.B lexc game.lex \-\-query "What costs the most?"
.TP
Watch mode for live development:
.B lexc game.lex \-t lua \-\-watch
.SH FILE FORMAT
Lex files use a declarative syntax:
.PP
.nf
.RS
\fBdefinition_type\fR \fIIdentifier\fR {
    \fBproperty\fR: \fIvalue\fR
    \fBnested\fR: { \fIkey\fR: \fIvalue\fR }
    \fBcondition\fR if \fIexpression\fR { }
}
.RE
.fi
.PP
See the full language specification at:
.UR https://github.com/David-Imperium/Lex-compiler
.UE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful compilation
.TP
.B 1
Compilation error or invalid arguments
.SH AUTHOR
David (Imperium Game Engine)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gcc (1),
.BR lua (1)
.SH LICENSE
MIT License
